So what is the ORM that we're gonna use?
We're gonna use something called Prisma.
So Prisma is a database agnostic,
type-safe ORM.
What does type-safe mean?
It basically means that this functionality
here is aware of the shape of
the data that you described.
So it can give you autocomplete for
the data that you're interacting with,
which is actually really cool.
Cuz typically you don't get that
because your data's dynamic,
how would the code know
what the data looked like?
Well, Prisma does, and it's really cool.
So we'll be using that.
It definitely supports most databases
out there, Mongo Postgres, SQLite,
even something like PlanetScale which is a
service database which is really awesome,
it supports that too.
And not only has an SDK for doing basic
to advanced querying of a database but
it also handles schemas,
migration, seeding.
And pretty sophisticated rights, that we
probably won't get to today because that
would just be like a database course.
But it's definitely slowly but
surely becoming the ORM choice for
most Node.js projects.
I think most people just start a project
and use Prisma at this point, and
they also have like really
good documentation.
I swear they're not paying me for this,
I just like the product, it's really cool.
And like I said before,
we'll be using Postgres for the database.
Now, before we get started,
you're gonna have to set up a database so
this can actually work,
and there's two ways.
I'm gonna give you the recommended way and
I'm gonna give you the way
that's not recommended.
The recommended way is
just go to render.com and
spin up a Postgres database for free.
You can make a free account.
You can go get a database, it's hosted.
You can pick the version.
It kind of just guarantees that you're
gonna be able to get through this course
without any trouble.
If you already have Postgres on your
computer, you can use that as well.
Just make sure you have the latest
version, which I think is 14 something.
If you don't have it on your computer,
just go to Render, make an account, and
spin it up.
But if you absolutely want to
install Postgres locally, you can go
to their website and they have an
installer that allows you to install it.
And then you can spin up a Postgres and
manage it locally yourself.
I will not be doing that.
I actually I do have Postgres locally,
so I could just turn it on.
But I'm just gonna go to Render and
I'm just gonna spin one up there, and
I'm gonna use that one.
I already have one, so
I'm gonna show you how that looks like.
Just gonna go to render.com.
I'm already signed in so
I'm gonna go to my dashboard.
And you can see here, I already have
a database to just show you what it looked
like if you had to make one.
You can just Click Create and then they
literally have an option for PostgreSQL.
You just click that, a little blue
elephant, or purple elephant,
that's what you want.
You wanna click that right there.
It might look different
since you're a new customer,
your UI might look different, but you
still wanna click a PostgreSQL database.
Make sure you pick the free one,
and let me show you what I mean.
When you go down here it automatically
selects the starter one,
that's 7 bucks a month.
Go to the left and click the free one.
Because it says right here,
you can't downgrade it later.
So make sure you pick the lowest one
at first, which is the free one.
You can name it whatever you want.
Don't worry about the database name.
Don't worry about the user.
Don't worry about the region.
In fact, you don't have to
worry about any of this stuff.
Just put a name and
leave everything else and click Create.
Once you have that,
you'll have a database and
you can scroll down and
you'll see all these different links.
Make sure you copy the external
database URL link.
You do not want the internal one.
The internal one is
probably only functional
within inside of a firewall or a VPC.
It doesn't allow external IP addresses.
It might rotate its URL frequently so
it changes.
So you don't wanna use the internal one,
it pretty much means it
won't work externally.
Use the external one.
And this is something that Heroku had a
problem with, they had rotating databases.
So even if you use it for external stuff,
you would have to go change it all
the time, and that was really annoying.
Cool, so
everyone should be able to do that.
Just make sure you get that copied.
We will be using it right now.
Okay, so once you get your database,
what you wanna do now is
we wanna install Prisma.
So to install Prisma there's also
some other dependencies that
we're going to use.
We're gonna use type script, like I
said at the beginning of the course.
And the reason we wanna use type script
because that enables Prismas type
checked stk, which I think is
half the benefit of Prisma.
It is actually quite powerful.
Because without that, what you're gonna do
is you're gonna find yourself like tabbing
back between your schema.
And the handler that you're
in like what is that?
What does the user need again?
Or what's that field that's required?
I forgot, you can just do it in
TypeScript, it'll just show you.
So we're gonna switch over to TypeScript.
Which means for TypeScript,
we need other dependencies.
So we got to download all the TypeScript
stuff and then we can download Prisma.
And then we're gonna switch to the project
which only has two files at this point to
TypeScript, so you'll see what that looks.
Okay, cool so
you can copy this command right here,
which will give you the whole
thing you need to install.
So let's go ahead and do that.
I'm gonna go to my terminal.
I'm going to stop the server.
You can stop the server or you can
open up another tab, it's up to you.
I'm actually just going
to stop the server.
And I'm gonna paste this in.
So MPM install typescript ts node.
So TypeScript,
it's actually the transpiler that's going
to convert the TypeScript to JavaScript.
TS node is literally the same thing
as running node in the terminal,
pointing it at a file, but
doing it in a TypeScript environment.
So it doesn't have to build first.
And @types node are just the types for
the node runtime, so we get global types.
And then Prisma's Prisma.
So we're gonna install those.
Make sure you save dev as all
of these are dev dependencies.
Okay, should have those installed.
Now that we do,
we need to create a TS config file.
If you've never used TypeScript before,
this is just a configuration file for
TypeScript.
TypeScript is a compiler,
it transforms code, and
you can have a bazillion different
options on how you wanted to do it.
So we're gonna paste this in and
we're going to do that.
So on the root of this
project just make a new file,
tsconfig.json and paste this in like so.
I know I put it in here, but
I highly recommend removing strict true.
Otherwise, you will be writing
a lot of types [LAUGH].
If you put strict true TypeScript won't
build unless you do all the hard work.
So I highly recommend just getting rid
of that strict true inside the compiler.